Hey, hi friends. In this video,
we are going to see one realtime script,
that shell script to monitor file system uses this agenda.
You are having some n number of file systems, right?
So here our requirement is in case if any file system reaches more than 60% US is,
then I want to identify them.
So I want to identify, at the same time,
I want to send a mail alert saying that so and so files or some sort of reached 60%,
more than 60%, right?
I assume that you have some file systems, right?
So whenever, if file system uses is
more than 60%, those file systems or how to identify are the same time.
Whatever the file systems are reached,
more than 60% those file systems information.
I want to send a mail alert,
I wanted to send it as a male alert.
Right.
So then how you can implement that.
So guys, just absorbed,
uh, let me open my ten ml here.
See, suppose on a Unix-like systems, right?
If you want to find the file system usage, right,
you can run simply df, iPhone ph command.
No, you just to consider what are
your valid Phi systems or whatever we were invalid file systems.
In my case, I don't want to wonder this.
You've got to adjust header.
And I don't want to wonder these and these,
so I want to skip these 23123.
Then suppose in my case I'm having
only one main
hyphens.
In this video. We are going to write one,
a realtime script and that ease shell script to wonder PFI system usage.
C, Just agenda, you're having some N number of file systems.
So whenever, if any one of you or file system reaches,
suppose more than 60% usage ordered me based on your requirements.
Sometimes suppose if you want to monitor the file systems based on,
suppose if the file system reaches more than 20% also, right?
It's based on your requirement, right?
So nothing is there.
If file system uses is reached more than your required value, right?
At the time, I need to identify all those who are file systems.
And at the same time I want to send a mail alert saying that so and so
file systems or reach this more than this percentage, right?
Okay, let me go and implement this script surveys on any Unix like systems, right?
If you want to see the file system information,
I mean its usage, you can then simply be of HIV-1 ph command.
So in my case, if you have low,
suppose I'm having only one file system. Suppose route.
One, just loginData in your realtime you how number of file systems.
So in my case, I am going to assume this also suppose one file system,
okay, anyway, this is Main your file system, right?
So in my case, just for
your understanding purpose because I need at least two file systems.
That's why I'm concerned. This has your file system.
I mean, this also your file system.
And anyway, if you hear this line and this line on remaining these lines,
you know, need because the amount of suppose you are required to file systems, right?
See, what I'm doing is gripped hyphen v. Suppose I don't want to monitor this line.
Then I don't wonder this line.
Even I don't do wonder these lines.
So that is what just I am removing them while running my command.
Now you are getting only these two file system suppose.
So even if we don't do wonder, wonder this right?
You just apply in this way. That's it.
So, but here I'm going to get only one file just on me if I do that,
you do also if I keep,
That's why just I am using that as one file system.
Right? So just assume that now you have to
monitor these two files systems in your realtime.
You've run the same command as it is in this way.
Suppose, right, you will get your required file systems first.
And if you observe here, this is uses, uses, right?
Usage 1%, 14 percent.
So as of now my file system, you say z.
Suppose for this file system I'm having 14%.
Okay?
Now just assume that if you're filesystem is reaches more than 10%.
So actually near real time,
you don't consider like 10% minimum.
We will consider suppose some 60%,
70, 80% percent likewise,
but here, suppose as of now,
our file system reaches more than a ten person.
So in that case, I want to use that threshold limit
as 10% So that I can write a script and I can show you how to get mail alerts.
But in your real time, right,
you'll get you'll take the threshold value or your required uses.
A file system is at least minimum 60%, you will take it.
Fine.
So first the thing guys.
Let me run this command.
So because of this command, right,
you're getting, suppose you are required to file systems.
Now, I want to read one by one line.
So I wonder, right greed this ln,
and then I want to read this line.
So after reading one by one line from this line,
if this is the file system,
then this is the usage, right?
So if you conduct these foster field, second,
third 450 field is your usage, right?
Suppose if this is the line,
just assume that, right?
So I suppose if I want filesystem name than what I have to do,
suppose I can use a RAW KR cut command.
So here I'm going to use a doubly K command.
It's your wish. So printed $1.1.
What I am getting, yes,
at the same time I want to get the uses of that file system.
Suppose let me take 5p, 1%,
but I don't want to take here percentage than what I'm doing is with sed command.
Alright, so I'm going to replace that percentile with nothing.
So percentile.
Right. But it is percentile.
So nothing globally that checked, right?
So first tried to use this syntaxes.
Let me write a shell script to get first of all,
your filesystem name on its usage.
Then offer that I will explain you.
Monitor file systems dot SH, right?
So you've been bash.
So guys, this command or put,
I wanted to go to my while loop.
Why read line.
Right?
So let me do that.
Do done.
So you can use your while loop in these wells, right?
So if you have a information file you can read from here.
Otherwise, if any command is that you can run in this manner.
You can read line by line from the output of this command
using your Y look in this way, right?
So first thing just for your understanding,
I am writing dollar line and then just I am giving sleep command,
just non-interview e asleep command.
Actually you should not use, but just to use some idea for you, just, I am taking that.
Let me run this script and see the output.
Yes, you are getting one file system offer that you are getting second system.
That's a, that means whatever the script you are having as
of now through which you are able to read your line-by-line.
Now, on each and every line,
I have to know the filesystem name on its usage percentile.
Like see, what I'm doing is filesystem name first-time taking equals to.
If you remember, this is right.
Echo dollar line filesystem name,
a WK, print $1.1 in that line.
Foster Field is your filesystem name.
For the same file system.
Usage.
I am taking uses variable.
My if we take same thing.
Fifth two field is the uses of the filesystem name.
And then I want to replace whatever you have Person tail, right?
I want to replace that with empty.
That means I want to remove actually my percentile symbol from that.
So what I'm doing is I'm doing in this way.
Now, see that a co filesystem name,
whatever the file system name is,
your file underscore name,
comma, then filesystem usage.
I am writing file underscore usage.
So guys, just I am fetching the information.
I'm not, I included original logic.
Now. I will include a for some time.
Now, whatever the code we have here, right,
let me run this and see the output what you are getting.
So my intentions from each and every line,
I want to get the filesystem name.
So I can get now filesystem name from the foster field in the same line,
50 field, if we consider,
you'll get usage, but in that you are getting percentile Now I am removing that.
I'll see the output, say file system named Tao and its uses one.
Now if I just, I'm naming something,
then its usage is 14.
Yes. Now I'm able to get my file system names under their usage, right.
Now what I'm doing is let me take file usage thresholds.
Eco. Suppose in my case I'm taking ten days
because as of now my maximum faeces and mutations 14%.
That's why I'm taking file system uses threshold value as ten,
but in your real time you will have minimum 60.
Okay?
Now see, what I am doing
is nondescript wonder,
right?
Yeah, descriptor, Let me take filing system uses threshold.
Let's say suppose ten.
Okay.
Now what I am doing this, if, see that?
If what toward the uses you hold in your hand.
Right?
If that uses these guerrilla band file usage threshold,
then what the time what I'm doing is I'm sending the information,
I mean filesystem name, filename.
If condition is satisfied,
it means whatever the file system you are getting, right,
that file system uses is greater than threshold means if it is greater than
ten at that time, that information, right?
So what I'm doing is I'm going to store
this information into one file. So let me do that.
So some file system info dot TXT, close, right?
So before starting your script to,
because if all of the information is there that will be appended to this,
that's why I want to remove that.
So or simply I am doing this one.
Now. See that as of now,
you don't have any file system uses dot TXT file right now I'm running monitor script.
So actually you should not include sleep command raise here,
but here just I included for you or understanding purpose.
So in now you got a file called file system info.plist observed that?
Yes, whatever the file system which is reached uses percentages greater than ten,
then you are able to store that file system information to this file.
Right?
So if something is there in this file means now, if,
if something is there in this file means there is a file system
which are reached more than your threshold value, right?
So that is why what I am doing is I am including one more logic in your script that
is less now let me remove your sleep command.
What I'm doing is first let me find out content anywhere.
File cat, file system,
WC hyphen L. I'm counting if any number of lines or their,
right, if WCF and it'll count lambda of lines in this file.
If it is at least one,
then definitely you some file system which reach greater than ten.
Right?
So that's why I'm taking one more if condition.
If dollar.
Count value. If it is greater than 0, right?
Then I can say that a poll, I go.
Maybe sometimes many number of file systems are one file system, right?
So some file systems usage
is more than threshold, right?
If you want to display what is that file system than simply combined here?
Cat, you are filesystem info.plist.
I'll see that. Let me run this and see the script.
Omen. No such file.
Let me open a cat.
Files is infinite dxdy? Yes.
Okay.
So initially you don't have that. That's why you are getting.
But note, although I don't want to display that in C,
for first file system,
you are not, I mean your file system is not reached the threshold value ten,
that's why there is no content in the file.
So after completion of while loop,
I will take these then that's better.
So after completion of your all while loops, right?
I mean for all lines,
then if you run your if command,
then that would be good.
So first I am wondering all file systems, and then after that,
I'm checking if any filesystem is there in the file
means one of the file system or some other file systems or reach,
you are more than the required threshold value.
Now let me run. This is perfect.
See that some files you,
some usage is more than threshold and what is their file system?
This one. Right? So again,
this is just simply a cell script just to monitor
your file system usage and to monitor that you are running your shell script.
But I don't want to run and I don't want to
observe my filesystem usage by running the shell script automatically,
I want to execute this script.
Suppose for every one minute or every one hour
or every ten minutes each based on your requirement.
And if any file systems or reached more than your threshold value,
I mean, usage of your filesystem there automatically.
I one-percent mainly not to send your main, right. See that?
What I'm doing is I'm writing as male command, send mail command.
Ok, I go, let me write.
Subject is suppose alert, right?
Let me do it in this way.
Then I'm reading that.
So guys, why I'm using the CAD file system means I
want to read that file system and I want to send that content to my mail.
And then pipeline send email is the command I already installed
that LU with scripting to this male.
That's it. Let me save it.
And before going into that,
let me open my mail id and see that the asthma,
you don't have any mailers here right?
Now, I'm going to run my script.
If something goes wrong,
then we're now you've got some mail just waited and observed outwardly.
Just wait.
Is this
do with the scripting available gmail.com?
With scripting, sorry, invalid selector.
That is, let me,
let me save it and run it.
Light.
Not just refresh your mail and see the output.
C, You got something, right?
So for this, right,
for this file system,
you have reached more than 10% are
actually whatever the required threshold you fixing your script.
Right? Oh sorry, not this right.
So we monitor file systems, right?
So now, okay, you've done your script.
Like what the thing is.
I don't want to run the script and I don't want to
get mail alerts manually, automatically.
I want to run this script, suppose for every one minute or whatever it one hour, right?
So for that, what you do is you need to schedule lip cron job for your script.
Right? So this is my complete descriptive path.
So guys, you have crontab, right?
Let me read that file.
So just to go down and here you have five fields guys.
First is minute, second is Howard's, then month,
then day, then date of the week, then days.
I want to run my shell script so it's better to provide you
are complete the bass line and the complete path.
So whereas here the syntax for cron W,
You have five fields.
If I write all our star than your script will then for every one minute automatically.
And based on your script, right?
Whatever the script you how.
So this script will run automatically for every one minute.
And if this condition is satisfied,
then you are sending e-mail alert.
So what you are sending, if something is there in this file when you will have something,
then this file when you will have something in his file,
if some of the,
if any one of the filesystem,
which is greater than your threshold,
suppose ten, I have taken murder in real time.
You have to take more than that.
I mean, num 60% you will take.
Right? Now guys, one more thing.
Whenever if you are scheduling it jobs, right?
So it's better to provide always complete path for your commands.
I mean, whenever, if your scheduling a job through contact,
right at that time,
it's bad to provide complete,
I mean, path for the word sendmail command,
otherwise, it may or may not work.
So now what I'm doing is I'm mentioning complete path, right?
See here guys, just now we edited your filesystem.
Now it has been installing new contacts.
Now if you want to see con tab my phone list,
this is the contact US scheduled.
This is the expression for a contact.
The meaning for 5-stars is For every one minute automatically scriptable run.
Now, let me refresh it.
Let me remove this Popper one-minute automatically,
you will get your new mail alert.
Ok. Just wait.
See that alert Yogi got right. See what is that?
Elect a 22.
Just know you got just under here.
Now, again, after one minute automatically you will get one more mailer at I mean,
it was company is automatically I mean, through contact,
you are monitoring your file system usage automatically for every one minute.
So if you want to wonder for every one hour, right,
you need to modify your conjugate expression here, right?
It's very simple to understand your conduct anyway,
we'll post that crontab information as well.
Okay. Meanwhile, if any idea,
you can easily understand contact.
So you, our intention is for every one minute automatically you are running
your shell script and you are monitoring your file systems, right?
Software every one mint automatical, Yes.
And now you've got one more main right?
Now what I will do is, yeah, it's hidden.
If you want to suppose in your real time, Right?
It just scheduled this I mean threshold as
suppose minimum not by you if based on requirement.
So suppose in my neutron went,
we are monitoring all file systems which are reach
greater than 70% of usage at the time automatically,
I want to, we want to get mail alerts.
So in that case we use this type of script.
Right?
So now if I save this, now,
you wouldn't get now from now onwards you won't get any mail alerts because you
schedule your job and use Schedule the threshold limit as 70%.
And as of now, no file system rage 70% because magnesium is 14%,
it is less than your threshold.
That's why you won't get now mail alerts, right?
So automatically based on usage,
if if your file system uses is greater than this,
then definitely you'll get an email alert based on your job.
Okay.
So guys, there is the simple script just to monitor some file system usage.
Okay. Okay, yes.
Thank you for watching this video.